Title: Email Collection

Description: Adversaries may target user email to collect sensitive information. Emails may contain sensitive data, including trade secrets or personal information, that can prove valuable to adversaries. Adversaries can collect or forward email from mail servers or clients.

Metadata:

ID: T1114

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1114 can be used to accomplish): Collection URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1114

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Google Workspace, Linux, Office 365, Windows, macOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0059 | Name: Magic Hound | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Magic Hound](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0059) has compromised email credentials in order to steal sensitive data.(Citation: Certfa Charming Kitten January 2021) |

ID: G0122 | Name: Silent Librarian | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Silent Librarian](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0122) has exfiltrated entire mailboxes from compromised accounts.(Citation: DOJ Iran Indictments March 2018) |

ID: S0367 | Name: Emotet | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Emotet](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0367) has been observed leveraging a module that can scrape email addresses from Outlook.(Citation: CIS Emotet Dec 2018)(Citation: IBM IcedID November 2017)(Citation: Binary Defense Emotes Wi-Fi Spreader) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1041 | Mitigation name: Encrypt Sensitive Information | Description: Protect sensitive information with strong encryption. |

Mitigation ID: M1032 | Mitigation name: Multi-factor Authentication | Description: Use two or more pieces of evidence to authenticate to a system; such as username and password in addition to a token from a physical smart card or token generator. |

Detection:

There are likely a variety of ways an adversary could collect email from a target, each with a different mechanism for detection.

File access of local system email files for Exfiltration, unusual processes connecting to an email server within a network, or unusual access patterns or authentication attempts on a public-facing webmail server may all be indicators of malicious activity.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather local email files. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).

Detection is challenging because all messages forwarded because of an auto-forwarding rule have the same presentation as a manually forwarded message. It is also possible for the user to not be aware of the addition of such an auto-forwarding rule and not suspect that their account has been compromised; email-forwarding rules alone will not affect the normal usage patterns or operations of the email account.

Auto-forwarded messages generally contain specific detectable artifacts that may be present in the header; such artifacts would be platform-specific. Examples include

<code>X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AutoForwarded</code> set to true,

<code>X-MailFwdBy</code> and <code>X-Forwarded-To</code>. The

<code>forwardingSMTPAddress</code> parameter used in a forwarding process that is managed by administrators and not by user actions. All messages for the mailbox are forwarded to the

specified SMTP address. However, unlike typical client-side rules, the message does not appear as forwarded in the mailbox; it appears as if it were sent directly to the specified destination mailbox.(Citation: Microsoft Tim McMichael Exchange Mail Forwarding 2) High volumes of emails that bear the <code>X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AutoForwarded</code> header (indicating auto-forwarding) without a corresponding number of emails that match the appearance of a forwarded message may indicate that further investigation is needed at the administrator level rather than user-level.