Title: Office Application Startup

Description: Adversaries may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups. Microsoft Office is a fairly common application suite on Windows-based operating systems within an enterprise network. There are multiple mechanisms that can be used with Office for persistence when an Office-based application is started; this can include the use of Office Template Macros and add-ins.

A variety of features have been discovered in Outlook that can be abused to obtain persistence, such as Outlook rules, forms, and Home Page.(Citation: SensePost Ruler GitHub) These persistence mechanisms can work within Outlook or be used through Office 365.(Citation: TechNet O365 Outlook Rules)

Metadata:

ID: T1137

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1137 can be used to accomplish): Persistence URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1137

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Office 365, Windows

Permissions required (the lowest level of permission the adversary is required to be operating within to perform T1137): Administrator, User

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0050 | Name: APT32 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [APT32](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0050) have replaced Microsoft Outlook's VbaProject.OTM file to install a backdoor macro for persistence.(Citation: Cybereason Oceanlotus May 2017)(Citation: Cybereason Cobalt Kitty 2017) |

ID: G0047 | Name: Gamaredon Group | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Gamaredon Group](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0047) has inserted malicious macros into existing documents, providing persistence when they are reopened. [Gamaredon Group](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0047) has loaded the group's previously delivered VBA project by relaunching Microsoft Outlook with the <code>/altvba</code> option, once the Application.Startup event is received.(Citation: ESET Gamaredon June 2020) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1040 | Mitigation name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1042 | Mitigation name: Disable or Remove Feature or Program | Description:

Remove or deny access to unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software to prevent abuse by adversaries. |

Mitigation ID: M1054 | Mitigation name: Software Configuration | Description: Implement configuration changes to software (other than the operating system) to mitigate security risks associated to how the software operates. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. | Detection:

Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior. If winword.exe is the parent process for suspicious processes and activity relating to other adversarial techniques, then it could indicate that the application was used maliciously.

Many Office-related persistence mechanisms require changes to the Registry and for binaries, files, or scripts to be written to disk or existing files modified to include malicious scripts. Collect events related to Registry key creation and modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence.(Citation: CrowdStrike Outlook Forms)(Citation: Outlook Today Home Page) Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms

in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output.(Citation: Microsoft Detect Outlook Forms) SensePost, whose tool [Ruler](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0358) can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.(Citation: SensePost NotRuler)