Description: Adversaries may create an account to maintain access to victim systems. With a sufficient level of access, creating such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system. Accounts may be created on the local system or within a domain or cloud tenant. In cloud environments, adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific services, which can reduce the chance of detection.

Metadata:

ID: T1136

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1136 can be used to accomplish): Persistence URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Azure AD, Containers, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Office 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: C0025 | Name: 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack | Source Type: campaign | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: During the [2016 Ukraine Electric Power

Attack](https://attack.mitre.org/campaigns/C0025), [Sandworm

Team](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0034) added a login to a SQL Server with

'sp_addlinkedsrvlogin'.(Citation: Dragos Crashoverride 2018) |

ID: G0119 | Name: Indrik Spider | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Indrik Spider](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0119) used <code>wmic.exe</code> to add a new user to the system.(Citation: Symantec WastedLocker June 2020) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1032 | Mitigation name: Multi-factor Authentication | Description: Use two or more pieces of evidence to authenticate to a system; such as username and password in addition to a token from a physical smart card or token generator. |

Mitigation ID: M1030 | Mitigation name: Network Segmentation | Description: Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network. Configure separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances to isolate critical cloud systems. |

Mitigation ID: M1028 | Mitigation name: Operating System Configuration | Description: Make configuration changes related to the operating system or a common feature of the operating system that result in system hardening against techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

## Detection:

Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with account creation, such as <code>net user</code> or <code>useradd</code>. Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows system and domain controller. (Citation: Microsoft User Creation Event) Perform regular audits of domain and local system accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. Collect usage logs from cloud administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the creation of new accounts and assignment of roles to those accounts. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles that go over a certain threshold of known admins.