Title: Data Encoding

Description: Adversaries may encode data to make the content of command and control traffic more difficult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a standard data encoding system. Use of data encoding may adhere to existing protocol specifications and includes use of ASCII, Unicode, Base64, MIME, or other binary-to-text and character encoding systems.(Citation: Wikipedia Binary-to-text Encoding) (Citation: Wikipedia Character Encoding) Some data encoding systems may also result in data compression, such as gzip.

Metadata:

ID: T1132

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1132 can be used to accomplish): Command and Control

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1132

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0128 | Name: BADNEWS | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: After encrypting C2 data, [BADNEWS](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0128) converts it into a hexadecimal representation and then encodes it into base64.(Citation: Forcepoint Monsoon) |

ID: S0132 | Name: H1N1 | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [H1N1](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0132) obfuscates C2 traffic with an altered version of base64.(Citation: Cisco H1N1 Part 2) |

ID: S0362 | Name: Linux Rabbit | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Linux Rabbit](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0362) sends the payload from the C2 server as an encoded URL parameter. (Citation: Anomali Linux Rabbit 2018) |

ID: S0699 | Name: Mythic | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Mythic](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0699) provides various transform functions to encode and/or randomize C2 data.(Citation: Mythc Documentation) |

ID: S0386 | Name: Ursnif | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Ursnif](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0386) has used encoded data in HTTP URLs for C2.(Citation: ProofPoint Ursnif Aug 2016) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1031 | Mitigation name: Network Intrusion Prevention | Description: Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries. | Detection:

Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used. (Citation: University of Birmingham C2)