Description: Adversaries may introduce computer accessories, networking hardware, or other computing devices into a system or network that can be used as a vector to gain access. Rather than just connecting and distributing payloads via removable storage (i.e. [Replication Through Removable Media](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091)), more robust hardware additions can be used to introduce new functionalities and/or features into a system that can then be abused. While public references of usage by threat actors are scarce, many red teams/penetration testers leverage hardware additions for initial access. Commercial and open source products can be leveraged with capabilities such as passive network tapping, network traffic modification (i.e. [Adversary-in-the-Middle](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1557)), keystroke injection, kernel memory reading via DMA, addition of new wireless access to an existing network, and others.(Citation: Ossmann Star Feb 2011)(Citation: Aleks Weapons Nov 2015)(Citation: Frisk DMA August 2016)(Citation: McMillan Pwn March 2012)

Metadata:

ID: T1200

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1200 can be used to accomplish): Initial Access URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1200

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0105 | Name: DarkVishnya | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [DarkVishnya](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0105) used Bash Bunny, Raspberry Pi, netbooks or inexpensive laptops to connect to the company's local network.(Citation: Securelist DarkVishnya Dec 2018) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1035 | Mitigation name: Limit Access to Resource Over Network | Description: Prevent access to file shares, remote access to systems, unnecessary services. Mechanisms to limit access may include use of network concentrators, RDP gateways, etc. |

Mitigation ID: M1034 | Mitigation name: Limit Hardware Installation | Description: Block users or groups from installing or using unapproved hardware on systems, including USB devices. | Detection:

Asset management systems may help with the detection of computer systems or network devices that should not exist on a network.

Endpoint sensors may be able to detect the addition of hardware via USB, Thunderbolt, and other external device communication ports.