Title: System Binary Proxy Execution

Description: Adversaries may bypass process and/or signature-based defenses by proxying execution of malicious content with signed, or otherwise trusted, binaries. Binaries used in this technique are often Microsoft-signed files, indicating that they have been either downloaded from Microsoft or are already native in the operating system.(Citation: LOLBAS Project) Binaries signed with trusted digital certificates can typically execute on Windows systems protected by digital signature validation. Several Microsoft signed binaries that are default on Windows installations can be used to proxy execution of other files or commands.

Similarly, on Linux systems adversaries may abuse trusted binaries such as <code>split</code> to proxy execution of malicious commands.(Citation: split man page)(Citation: GTFO split) Metadata:

ID: T1218

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1218 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1218

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0032 | Name: Lazarus Group | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Lazarus Group](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0032) lnk files used for persistence have abused the Windows Update Client (<code>wuauclt.exe</code>) to execute a malicious DLL.(Citation: Lazarus APT January 2022)(Citation: Qualys LolZarus) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1042 | Mitigation name: Disable or Remove Feature or Program | Description: Remove or deny access to unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software to prevent abuse by adversaries. |

Mitigation ID: M1038 | Mitigation name: Execution Prevention | Description: Block execution of code on a system through application control, and/or script blocking. |

Mitigation ID: M1050 | Mitigation name: Exploit Protection | Description: Use capabilities to detect and block conditions that may lead to or be indicative of a software exploit occurring. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

## Detection:

Monitor processes and command-line parameters for signed binaries that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files. Compare recent invocations of signed binaries that may be used to proxy execution with prior history of known good arguments and loaded files to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. Legitimate programs used in suspicious ways, like msiexec.exe downloading an MSI file from the Internet, may be indicative of an intrusion. Correlate activity with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives that may be due to normal benign use by users and administrators.

Monitor for file activity (creations, downloads, modifications, etc.), especially for file types that are not typical within an environment and may be indicative of adversary activity.