Title: Exploitation for Defense Evasion

Description: Adversaries may exploit a system or application vulnerability to bypass security features. Exploitation of a vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute adversary-controlled code. Vulnerabilities may exist in defensive security software that can be used to disable or circumvent them.

Adversaries may have prior knowledge through reconnaissance that security software exists within an environment or they may perform checks during or shortly after the system is compromised for [Security Software Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1518/001). The security software will likely be targeted directly for exploitation. There are examples of antivirus software being targeted by persistent threat groups to avoid detection.

There have also been examples of vulnerabilities in public cloud infrastructure of SaaS applications that may bypass defense boundaries (Citation: Salesforce zero-day in facebook phishing attack), evade security logs (Citation: Bypassing CloudTrail in AWS Service Catalog), or deploy hidden infrastructure.(Citation: GhostToken GCP flaw)

Metadata:

## ID: T1211

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1211 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1211

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): IaaS, Linux, SaaS, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0007 | Name: APT28 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [APT28](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0007) has used CVE-2015-4902 to bypass security features.(Citation: Bitdefender APT28 Dec 2015)(Citation: Microsoft SIR Vol 19) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1048 | Mitigation name: Application Isolation and Sandboxing | Description: Restrict execution of code to a virtual environment on or in transit to an endpoint system. |

Mitigation ID: M1050 | Mitigation name: Exploit Protection | Description: Use capabilities to detect and block conditions that may lead to or be indicative of a software exploit occurring. |

Mitigation ID: M1019 | Mitigation name: Threat Intelligence Program | Description: A threat intelligence program helps an organization generate their own threat intelligence information and track trends to inform defensive priorities to mitigate risk. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. | Detection:

Exploitation for defense evasion may happen shortly after the system has been compromised to prevent detection during later actions for for additional tools that may be brought in and used. Detecting software exploitation may be difficult depending on the tools available. Software exploits may not always succeed or may cause the exploited process to become unstable or crash. Also look for behavior on the system that might indicate successful compromise, such as abnormal behavior of processes. This could include suspicious files written to disk, evidence of [Process Injection](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055) for attempts to hide execution or evidence of Discovery.