Title: Exploitation for Credential Access

Description: Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in an attempt to collect credentials. Exploitation of a software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute adversary-controlled code.

Credentialing and authentication mechanisms may be targeted for exploitation by adversaries as a means to gain access to useful credentials or circumvent the process to gain authenticated access to systems. One example of this is 'MS14-068', which targets Kerberos and can be used to forge Kerberos tickets using domain user permissions.(Citation: Technet MS14-068)(Citation: ADSecurity Detecting Forged Tickets) Another example of this is replay attacks, in which the adversary intercepts data packets sent between parties and then later replays these packets. If services don't properly validate authentication requests, these replayed packets may allow an adversary to impersonate one of the parties and gain unauthorized access or privileges.(Citation: Bugcrowd Replay Attack)(Citation: Comparitech Replay Attack)(Citation: Microsoft Midnight Blizzard Replay Attack)

Such exploitation has been demonstrated in cloud environments as well. For example, adversaries have exploited vulnerabilities in public cloud infrastructure that allowed for unintended authentication token creation and renewal.(Citation: Storm-0558 techniques for unauthorized email access) Exploitation for credential access may also result in Privilege Escalation depending on the process targeted or credentials obtained.

Metadata:

ID: T1212

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1212 can be used to accomplish): Credential Access URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1212

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Azure AD, Linux, Windows, macOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1013 | Mitigation name: Application Developer Guidance | Description: This mitigation describes any guidance or training given to developers of applications to avoid introducing security weaknesses that an adversary may be able to take advantage of. |

Mitigation ID: M1048 | Mitigation name: Application Isolation and Sandboxing | Description: Restrict execution of code to a virtual environment on or in transit to an endpoint system. |

Mitigation ID: M1050 | Mitigation name: Exploit Protection | Description: Use capabilities to detect and block conditions that may lead to or be indicative of a software exploit occurring. |

Mitigation ID: M1019 | Mitigation name: Threat Intelligence Program | Description: A threat intelligence program helps an organization generate their own threat intelligence information and track trends to inform defensive priorities to mitigate risk. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. | Detection:

Detecting software exploitation may be difficult depending on the tools available. Software exploits may not always succeed or may cause the exploited process to become unstable or crash. Also look for behavior on the system that might indicate successful compromise, such as abnormal behavior of processes. Credential resources obtained through exploitation may be detectable in use if they are not normally used or seen.