Title: Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts

Description: Adversaries may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence. Initialization scripts are part of the underlying operating system and are not accessible to the user unless the device has been rooted or jailbroken.

Metadata:

ID: T1398

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1398 can be used to accomplish): Persistence URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1398

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S1079 | Name: BOULDSPY | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [BOULDSPY](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1079) can exfiltrate data when the user boots the app, or on device boot.(Citation: lookout_bouldspy_0423) |

ID: S0285 | Name: OldBoot | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [OldBoot](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0285) uses escalated privileges to modify the init script on the device's boot partition to maintain persistence.(Citation: HackerNews-OldBoot) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1002 | Mitigation name: Attestation | Description: Enable remote attestation capabilities when available (such as Android SafetyNet or Samsung Knox TIMA Attestation) and prohibit devices that fail the attestation from accessing enterprise resources. |

Mitigation ID: M1003 | Mitigation name: Lock Bootloader | Description: On devices that provide the capability to unlock the bootloader (hence allowing any operating system code to be flashed onto the device), perform periodic checks to ensure that the bootloader is locked. |

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Mitigation ID: M1004 | Mitigation name: System Partition Integrity | Description: Ensure that Android devices being used include and enable the Verified Boot capability, which cryptographically ensures the integrity of the system partition. | Detection:

On Android, Verified Boot can detect unauthorized modifications to the system partition.(Citation: Android-VerifiedBoot) Android's SafetyNet API provides remote attestation capabilities, which could potentially be used to identify and respond to compromise devices. Samsung Knox provides a similar remote attestation capability on supported Samsung devices.