Description: Adversaries may use methods of capturing user input to obtain credentials or collect information. During normal device usage, users often provide credentials to various locations, such as login pages/portals or system dialog boxes. Input capture mechanisms may be transparent to the user (e.g. [Keylogging](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1417/001)) or rely on deceiving the user into providing input into what they believe to be a genuine application prompt (e.g. [GUI Input Capture](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1417/002)).

Metadata:

ID: T1417

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1417 can be used to accomplish): Collection, Credential Access

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1417

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1012 | Mitigation name: Enterprise Policy | Description: An enterprise mobility management (EMM), also known as mobile device management (MDM), system can be used to provision policies to mobile devices to control aspects of their allowed behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1011 | Mitigation name: User Guidance | Description: Describes any guidance or training given to users to set particular configuration settings or avoid specific potentially risky behaviors. |

Detection:

Application vetting services can look for applications requesting the permissions granting access to accessibility services or application overlay. Users can view and manage installed third-party keyboards.