Description: Adversaries may attempt to get information about running processes on a device. Information obtained could be used to gain an understanding of common software/applications running on devices within a network. Adversaries may use the information from [Process Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1424) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Recent Android security enhancements have made it more difficult to obtain a list of running processes. On Android 7 and later, there is no way for an application to obtain the process list without abusing elevated privileges. This is due to the Android kernel utilizing the 'hidepid' mount feature. Prior to Android 7, applications could utilize the 'ps' command or examine the '/proc' directory on the device.(Citation: Android-SELinuxChanges)

In iOS, applications have previously been able to use the 'sysctl' command to obtain a list of running processes. This functionality has been removed in later iOS versions. Metadata:

## ID: T1424

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1424 can be used to accomplish): Discovery URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1424

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0440 | Name: Agent Smith | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Agent Smith](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0440) checks if a targeted application is running in user-space prior to infection.(Citation: CheckPoint Agent Smith) |

ID: S0422 | Name: Anubis | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Anubis](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0422) can collect a list of running processes.(Citation: Zimperium z9) |

ID: S0421 | Name: GolfSpy | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [GolfSpy](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0421) can obtain a list of running processes.(Citation: Trend Micro Bouncing Golf 2019) |

ID: S0544 | Name: HenBox | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [HenBox](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0544) can obtain a list of running processes.(Citation: Palo Alto HenBox) |

ID: S0411 | Name: Rotexy | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Rotexy](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0411) collects information about running processes.(Citation: securelist rotexy 2018) |

ID: S1055 | Name: SharkBot | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [SharkBot](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1055) can use Accessibility Services to detect which process is in the foreground.(Citation: nccgroup_sharkbot_0322) |

ID: S0489 | Name: WolfRAT | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [WolfRAT](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0489) uses 'dumpsys' to determine if certain applications are running.(Citation: Talos-WolfRAT) |

ID: S0311 | Name: YiSpecter | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [YiSpecter](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0311) has collected information about running processes.(Citation: paloalto_yispecter_1015) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1002 | Mitigation name: Attestation | Description: Enable remote attestation capabilities when available (such as Android SafetyNet or Samsung Knox TIMA Attestation) and prohibit devices that fail the attestation from accessing enterprise resources. |

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or

weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. | Detection:

Mobile security products can typically detect rooted devices, which is an indication that Process Discovery is possible. Application vetting could potentially detect when applications attempt to abuse root access or root the system itself. Further, application vetting services could look for attempted usage of legacy process discovery mechanisms, such as the usage of 'ps' or inspection of the '/proc' directory.