Title: Lockscreen Bypass

Description: An adversary with physical access to a mobile device may seek to bypass the device's lockscreen. Several methods exist to accomplish this, including:

* Biometric spoofing: If biometric authentication is used, an adversary could attempt to spoof a mobile device's biometric authentication mechanism. Both iOS and Android partly mitigate this attack by requiring the device's passcode rather than biometrics to unlock the device after every device restart, and after a set or random amount of time.(Citation: SRLabs-Fingerprint)(Citation: TheSun-FaceID)

* Unlock code bypass: An adversary could attempt to brute-force or otherwise guess the lockscreen passcode (typically a PIN or password), including physically observing ("shoulder surfing") the device owner's use of the lockscreen passcode. Mobile OS vendors partly mitigate this by implementing incremental backoff timers after a set number of failed unlock attempts, as well as a configurable full device wipe after several failed unlock attempts.

* Vulnerability exploit: Techniques have been periodically demonstrated that exploit mobile devices to bypass the lockscreen. The vulnerabilities are generally patched by the device or OS vendor once disclosed.(Citation: Wired-AndroidBypass)(Citation: Kaspersky-iOSBypass) Metadata:

## ID: T1461

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1461 can be used to accomplish): Initial Access

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1461

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S1092 | Name: Escobar | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Escobar](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1092) can request the 'DISABLE_KEYGUARD' permission to disable the device lock screen password.(Citation: Bleeipng Computer Escobar) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1012 | Mitigation name: Enterprise Policy | Description: An enterprise mobility management (EMM), also known as mobile device management (MDM), system can be used to provision policies to mobile devices to control aspects of their allowed behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Detection:

Users can see if someone is watching them type in their device passcode.