Title: Supply Chain Compromise

Description: Adversaries may manipulate products or product delivery mechanisms prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise.

Supply chain compromise can take place at any stage of the supply chain including:

* Manipulation of development tools

* Manipulation of a development environment

* Manipulation of source code repositories (public or private)

* Manipulation of source code in open-source dependencies

* Manipulation of software update/distribution mechanisms

* Compromised/infected system images

* Replacement of legitimate software with modified versions

* Sales of modified/counterfeit products to legitimate distributors

* Shipment interdiction

While supply chain compromise can impact any component of hardware or software, attackers looking to gain execution have often focused on malicious additions to legitimate software in software distribution or update channels. Targeting may be specific to a desired victim set or malicious software may be distributed to a broad set of consumers but only move on to additional tactics on specific victims. Popular open source projects that are used as dependencies in many applications may also be targeted as a means to add malicious code to users of the dependency, specifically with the widespread usage of third-party advertising libraries.(Citation:

Grace-Advertisement)(Citation: NowSecure-RemoteCode) Metadata:

ID: T1474

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1474 can be used to accomplish): Initial Access URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1474

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1013 | Mitigation name: Application Developer Guidance | Description: This mitigation describes any guidance or training given to developers of applications to avoid introducing security weaknesses that an adversary may be able to take advantage of. | Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. | Detection:

Usage of insecure or malicious third-party libraries could be detected by application vetting services. Malicious software development tools could be detected by enterprises that deploy endpoint protection software on computers that are used to develop mobile apps. Application vetting could detect the usage of insecure or malicious third-party libraries.