Title: Network Denial of Service

Description: Adversaries may perform Network Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or block the availability of targeted resources to users. Network DoS can be performed by exhausting the network bandwidth services rely on. Example resources include specific websites, email services, DNS, and web-based applications. Adversaries have been observed conducting network DoS attacks for political purposes(Citation: FireEye OpPoisonedHandover February 2016) and to support other malicious activities, including distraction(Citation: FSISAC FraudNetDoS September 2012), hacktivism, and extortion.(Citation: Symantec DDoS October 2014)

A Network DoS will occur when the bandwidth capacity of the network connection to a system is exhausted due to the volume of malicious traffic directed at the resource or the network connections and network devices the resource relies on. For example, an adversary may send 10Gbps of traffic to a server that is hosted by a network with a 1Gbps connection to the internet. This traffic can be generated by a single system or multiple systems spread across the internet, which is commonly referred to as a distributed DoS (DDoS).

To perform Network DoS attacks several aspects apply to multiple methods, including IP address spoofing, and botnets.

Adversaries may use the original IP address of an attacking system, or spoof the source IP address to make the attack traffic more difficult to trace back to the attacking system or to enable reflection. This can increase the difficulty defenders have in defending against the attack by reducing or eliminating the effectiveness of filtering by the source address on network defense devices.

For DoS attacks targeting the hosting system directly, see [Endpoint Denial of Service](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1499).

Metadata:

ID: T1498

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1498 can be used to accomplish): Impact URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1498

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Azure AD, Containers, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Office 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS Impact type: Availability

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0007 | Name: APT28 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: In 2016, [APT28](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0007) conducted a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against the World Anti-Doping Agency.(Citation: US District Court Indictment GRU Oct 2018) |

ID: S0532 | Name: Lucifer | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Lucifer](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0532) can execute TCP, UDP, and HTTP denial of service (DoS) attacks.(Citation: Unit 42 Lucifer June 2020) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1037 | Mitigation name: Filter Network Traffic | Description: Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic. |

Detection:

Detection of Network DoS can sometimes be achieved before the traffic volume is sufficient to cause impact to the availability of the service, but such response time typically requires very aggressive monitoring and responsiveness or services provided by an upstream network service provider. Typical network throughput monitoring tools such as netflow(Citation: Cisco DoSdetectNetflow), SNMP, and custom scripts can be used to detect sudden increases in network or service utilization. Real-time, automated, and qualitative study of the network traffic can identify a sudden surge in one type of protocol can be used to detect an Network DoS event as it starts. Often, the lead time may be small and the indicator of an event availability of the network or service drops. The analysis tools mentioned can then be used to determine the type of DoS causing the

outage and help with remediation.