Title: Server Software Component

Description: Adversaries may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent access to systems. Enterprise server applications may include features that allow developers to write and install software or scripts to extend the functionality of the main application. Adversaries may install malicious components to extend and abuse server applications.(Citation: volexity_0day_sophos_FW)

Metadata:

## ID: T1505

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1505 can be used to accomplish): Persistence URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Network, Windows, macOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1045 | Mitigation name: Code Signing | Description: Enforce binary and application integrity with digital signature verification to prevent untrusted code from executing. | Mitigation ID: M1042 | Mitigation name: Disable or Remove Feature or Program | Description: Remove or deny access to unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software to prevent abuse by adversaries. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

Mitigation ID: M1024 | Mitigation name: Restrict Registry Permissions | Description: Restrict the ability to modify certain hives or keys in the Windows Registry. |

Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Consider monitoring application logs for abnormal behavior that may indicate suspicious installation of application software components. Consider monitoring file locations associated with the installation of new application software components such as paths from which applications typically load such extensible components.

Process monitoring may be used to detect servers components that perform suspicious actions such as running cmd.exe or accessing files. Log authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traffic patterns to or from the server and internal network. (Citation: US-CERT Alert TA15-314A Web Shells)