Description: Adversaries may abuse Pre-OS Boot mechanisms as a way to establish persistence on a system. During the booting process of a computer, firmware and various startup services are loaded before the operating system. These programs control flow of execution before the operating system takes control.(Citation: Wikipedia Booting)

Adversaries may overwrite data in boot drivers or firmware such as BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) and The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) to persist on systems at a layer below the operating system. This can be particularly difficult to detect as malware at this level will not be detected by host software-based defenses.

Metadata:

ID: T1542

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1542 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion, Persistence

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1542

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Network, Windows, macOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1046 | Mitigation name: Boot Integrity | Description: Use secure methods to boot a system and verify the integrity of the operating system and loading mechanisms. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. |

Detection:

Perform integrity checking on pre-OS boot mechanisms that can be manipulated for malicious purposes. Take snapshots of boot records and firmware and compare against known good images. Log changes to boot records, BIOS, and EFI, which can be performed by API calls, and compare against known good behavior and patching.

Disk check, forensic utilities, and data from device drivers (i.e. processes and API calls) may reveal anomalies that warrant deeper investigation.(Citation: ITWorld Hard Disk Health Dec 2014)