Title: Create or Modify System Process

Description: Adversaries may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When operating systems boot up, they can start processes that perform background system functions. On Windows and Linux, these system processes are referred to as services.(Citation: TechNet Services) On macOS, launchd processes known as [Launch Daemon](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/004) and [Launch Agent](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/001) are run to finish system initialization and load user specific parameters.(Citation: AppleDocs Launch Agent Daemons)

Adversaries may install new services, daemons, or agents that can be configured to execute at startup or a repeatable interval in order to establish persistence. Similarly, adversaries may modify existing services, daemons, or agents to achieve the same effect.

Services, daemons, or agents may be created with administrator privileges but executed under root/SYSTEM privileges. Adversaries may leverage this functionality to create or modify system processes in order to escalate privileges.(Citation: OSX Malware Detection) Metadata:

ID: T1543

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1543 can be used to accomplish): Persistence, Privilege Escalation

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0401 | Name: Exaramel for Linux | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Exaramel for Linux](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0401) has a hardcoded location that it uses to achieve persistence if the startup system is Upstart or System V and it is running as root.(Citation: ANSSI Sandworm January 2021) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1040 | Mitigation name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1045 | Mitigation name: Code Signing | Description: Enforce binary and application integrity with digital signature verification to prevent untrusted code from executing. |

Mitigation ID: M1033 | Mitigation name: Limit Software Installation | Description: Block users or groups from installing unapproved software. |

Mitigation ID: M1028 | Mitigation name: Operating System Configuration | Description: Make configuration changes related to the operating system or a common feature of the operating system that result in system hardening against techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description:

Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Monitor for changes to system processes that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc., including by comparing results against a trusted system baseline. New, benign system processes may be created during installation of new software. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

Command-line invocation of tools capable of modifying services may be unusual, depending on how

systems are typically used in a particular environment. Look for abnormal process call trees from known services and for execution of other commands that could relate to Discovery or other adversary techniques.

Monitor for changes to files associated with system-level processes.