Title: Unsecured Credentials

Description: Adversaries may search compromised systems to find and obtain insecurely stored credentials. These credentials can be stored and/or misplaced in many locations on a system, including plaintext files (e.g. [Bash History](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552/003)), operating system or application-specific repositories (e.g. [Credentials in

Registry](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552/002)), or other specialized files/artifacts (e.g. [Private Keys](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552/004)).

Metadata:

ID: T1552

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1552 can be used to accomplish): Credential Access URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1552

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Azure AD, Containers, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Office 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0373 | Name: Astaroth | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Astaroth](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0373) uses an external software known as NetPass to recover passwords. (Citation: Cybereason Astaroth Feb 2019) |

ID: S1091 | Name: Pacu | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Pacu](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1091) can search for sensitive data: for example, in Code Build environment variables, EC2 user data, and Cloud Formation templates.(Citation: GitHub Pacu)

|

## Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1015 | Mitigation name: Active Directory Configuration | Description: Configure Active Directory to prevent use of certain techniques; use SID Filtering, etc. |

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1041 | Mitigation name: Encrypt Sensitive Information | Description: Protect sensitive information with strong encryption. |

Mitigation ID: M1037 | Mitigation name: Filter Network Traffic | Description: Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic. |

Mitigation ID: M1035 | Mitigation name: Limit Access to Resource Over Network | Description: Prevent access to file shares, remote access to systems, unnecessary services. Mechanisms to limit access may include use of network concentrators, RDP gateways, etc. |

Mitigation ID: M1028 | Mitigation name: Operating System Configuration | Description: Make configuration changes related to the operating system or a common feature of the operating system that result in system hardening against techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1027 | Mitigation name: Password Policies | Description: Set and enforce secure password policies for accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description: Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. |

Mitigation ID: M1017 | Mitigation name: User Training | Description: Train users to be aware of access or manipulation attempts by an adversary to reduce the risk of successful spearphishing, social engineering, and other techniques that involve user interaction. | Detection:

While detecting adversaries accessing credentials may be difficult without knowing they exist in the environment, it may be possible to detect adversary use of credentials they have obtained. Monitor the command-line arguments of executing processes for suspicious words or regular expressions that may indicate searching for a password (for example: password, pwd, login, secure, or credentials). See [Valid Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078) for more information. Monitor for suspicious file access activity, specifically indications that a process is reading multiple files in a short amount of time and/or using command-line arguments indicative of searching for credential material (ex: regex patterns). These may be indicators of automated/scripted credential access behavior.

Monitoring when the user's <code>.bash_history</code> is read can help alert to suspicious activity. While users do typically rely on their history of commands, they often access this history through other utilities like "history" instead of commands like <code>cat ~/.bash_history</code>. Additionally, monitor processes for applications that can be used to query the Registry, such as [Reg](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0075), and collect command parameters that may indicate credentials are being searched. Correlate activity with related suspicious behavior that may indicate an active intrusion to reduce false positives.