Title: Inter-Process Communication

Description: Adversaries may abuse inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms for local code or command execution. IPC is typically used by processes to share data, communicate with each other, or synchronize execution. IPC is also commonly used to avoid situations such as deadlocks, which occurs when processes are stuck in a cyclic waiting pattern.

Adversaries may abuse IPC to execute arbitrary code or commands. IPC mechanisms may differ depending on OS, but typically exists in a form accessible through programming languages/libraries or native interfaces such as Windows [Dynamic Data

Exchange](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1559/002) or [Component Object

Model](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1559/001). Linux environments support several different IPC mechanisms, two of which being sockets and pipes.(Citation: Linux IPC) Higher level execution mediums, such as those of [Command and Scripting

Interpreter](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059)s, may also leverage underlying IPC mechanisms. Adversaries may also use [Remote

Services](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021) such as [Distributed Component Object Model](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/003) to facilitate remote IPC execution.(Citation: Fireeye Hunting COM June 2019)

Metadata:

ID: T1559

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1559 can be used to accomplish): Execution URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1559

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions required (the lowest level of permission the adversary is required to be operating within to perform T1559): Administrator, SYSTEM, User

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0687 | Name: Cyclops Blink | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Cyclops Blink](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0687) has the ability to create a pipe to enable inter-process communication.(Citation: Trend Micro Cyclops Blink March 2022) |

ID: S0537 | Name: HyperStack | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [HyperStack](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0537) can connect to the IPC$ share on remote machines.(Citation: Accenture HyperStack October 2020) |

ID: S1078 | Name: RotaJakiro | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: When executing with non-root permissions, [RotaJakiro](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1078) uses the the 'shmget API' to create shared memory between other known

[RotaJakiro](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1078) processes. This allows processes to communicate with each other and share their PID.(Citation: RotaJakiro 2021 netlab360 analysis) | ID: S0022 | Name: Uroburos | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Uroburos](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0022) has the ability to move data between its kernel and user mode components, generally using named pipes.(Citation: Joint Cybersecurity Advisory AA23-129A Snake Malware May 2023) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1013 | Mitigation name: Application Developer Guidance | Description: This mitigation describes any guidance or training given to developers of applications to avoid introducing security weaknesses that an adversary may be able to take advantage of. |

Mitigation ID: M1048 | Mitigation name: Application Isolation and Sandboxing | Description: Restrict execution of code to a virtual environment on or in transit to an endpoint system. |

Mitigation ID: M1040 | Mitigation name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1042 | Mitigation name: Disable or Remove Feature or Program | Description: Remove or deny access to unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software to prevent abuse by

adversaries. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

Mitigation ID: M1054 | Mitigation name: Software Configuration | Description: Implement configuration changes to software (other than the operating system) to mitigate security risks associated to how the software operates. |

Detection:

Monitor for strings in files/commands, loaded DLLs/libraries, or spawned processes that are associated with abuse of IPC mechanisms.