Title: Modify Authentication Process

Description: Adversaries may modify authentication mechanisms and processes to access user credentials or enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. The authentication process is handled by mechanisms, such as the Local Security Authentication Server (LSASS) process and the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on Windows, pluggable authentication modules (PAM) on Unix-based systems, and authorization plugins on MacOS systems, responsible for gathering, storing, and validating credentials. By modifying an authentication process, an adversary may be able to authenticate to a service or system without using [Valid

Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078).

Adversaries may maliciously modify a part of this process to either reveal credentials or bypass authentication mechanisms. Compromised credentials or access may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the network and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally available services, such as VPNs, Outlook Web Access and remote desktop.

Metadata:

ID: T1556

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1556 can be used to accomplish): Credential Access, Defense Evasion, Persistence

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Office 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G1016 | Name: FIN13 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [FIN13](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G1016) has replaced legitimate KeePass binaries with trojanized versions to collect passwords from numerous applications.(Citation: Mandiant FIN13 Aug 2022) |

ID: S0377 | Name: Ebury | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Ebury](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0377) can intercept private keys using a trojanized <code>ssh-add</code> function.(Citation: ESET Ebury Feb 2014) |

ID: S0487 | Name: Kessel | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Kessel](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0487) has trojanized the <sode>ssh_login</code> and <code>user-auth_pubkey</code> functions to steal plaintext credentials.(Citation: ESET ForSSHe December 2018) |

ID: S0692 | Name: SILENTTRINITY | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [SILENTTRINITY](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0692) can create a backdoor in KeePass using a malicious config file and in TortoiseSVN using a registry hook.(Citation: GitHub SILENTTRINITY Modules July 2019) |

Mitigations: Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. |

Mitigation ID: M1032 | Mitigation name: Multi-factor Authentication | Description: Use two or more pieces of evidence to authenticate to a system; such as username and password in addition to a token from a physical smart card or token generator. |

Mitigation ID: M1028 | Mitigation name: Operating System Configuration | Description: Make configuration changes related to the operating system or a common feature of the operating system that result in system hardening against techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1027 | Mitigation name: Password Policies | Description: Set and enforce secure password policies for accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

Mitigation ID: M1025 | Mitigation name: Privileged Process Integrity | Description: Protect processes with high privileges that can be used to interact with critical system components through use of protected process light, anti-process injection defenses, or other process integrity enforcement measures. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description: Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1024 | Mitigation name: Restrict Registry Permissions | Description: Restrict the ability to modify certain hives or keys in the Windows Registry. |

Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Monitor for new, unfamiliar DLL files written to a domain controller and/or local computer. Monitor for changes to Registry entries for password filters (ex:

<code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\Notification Packages</code>) and correlate then investigate the DLL files these files reference.

Password filters will also show up as an autorun and loaded DLL in lsass.exe.(Citation: Clymb3r Function Hook Passwords Sept 2013)

Monitor for calls to <code>OpenProcess</code> that can be used to manipulate lsass.exe running on a domain controller as well as for malicious modifications to functions exported from authentication-related system DLLs (such as cryptdll.dll and samsrv.dll).(Citation: Dell Skeleton) Monitor PAM configuration and module paths (ex: <code>/etc/pam.d/</code>) for changes. Use system-integrity tools such as AIDE and monitoring tools such as auditd to monitor PAM files. Monitor for suspicious additions to the /Library/Security/SecurityAgentPlugins directory.(Citation: Xorrior Authorization Plugins)

Configure robust, consistent account activity audit policies across the enterprise and with externally accessible services. (Citation: TechNet Audit Policy) Look for suspicious account behavior across systems that share accounts, either user, admin, or service accounts. Examples: one account logged into multiple systems simultaneously; multiple accounts logged into the same machine simultaneously; accounts logged in at odd times or outside of business hours. Activity may be from interactive login sessions or process ownership from accounts being used to execute binaries on a remote system as a particular account. Correlate other security systems with login information (e.g., a user has an active login session but has not entered the building or does not have VPN access). Monitor property changes in Group Policy that manage authentication mechanisms (i.e. [Group Policy Modification](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1484/001)). The <code>Store passwords using reversible encryption</code> configuration should be set to Disabled. Additionally, monitor and/or block suspicious command/script execution of <code>-AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption $true</code>, <code>Set-ADUser</code> and <code>Set-ADAccountControl</code>. Finally, monitor Fine-Grained Password Policies and regularly audit user accounts and group settings.(Citation: dump_pwd_dcsync)