Title: Data Manipulation

Description: Adversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data in order to influence external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, or decision making.

The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

Metadata:

ID: T1565

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1565 can be used to accomplish): Impact URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS Impact type: Integrity

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G1016 | Name: FIN13 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [FIN13](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G1016) has injected fraudulent transactions into compromised networks that mimic legitimate behavior to siphon off incremental amounts of money.(Citation: Sygnia Elephant Beetle Jan 2022) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1041 | Mitigation name: Encrypt Sensitive Information | Description: Protect sensitive information with strong encryption. |

Mitigation ID: M1030 | Mitigation name: Network Segmentation | Description: Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network. Configure separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances to isolate critical cloud systems. |

Mitigation ID: M1029 | Mitigation name: Remote Data Storage | Description: Use remote security log and sensitive file storage where access can be controlled better to prevent exposure of intrusion detection log data or sensitive information. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description: Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Detection:

Where applicable, inspect important file hashes, locations, and modifications for suspicious/unexpected values. With some critical processes involving transmission of data, manual or out-of-band integrity checking may be useful for identifying manipulated data.