Title: System Services

Description: Adversaries may abuse system services or daemons to execute commands or programs. Adversaries can execute malicious content by interacting with or creating services either locally or remotely. Many services are set to run at boot, which can aid in achieving persistence ([Create or Modify System Process](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543)), but adversaries can also abuse services for one-time or temporary execution.

Metadata:

ID: T1569

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1569 can be used to accomplish): Execution URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1569

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions required (the lowest level of permission the adversary is required to be operating within to perform T1569): Administrator, root, SYSTEM, User

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0139 | Name: TeamTNT | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description:

[TeamTNT](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0139) has created system services to execute cryptocurrency mining software.(Citation: Cisco Talos Intelligence Group) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1040 | Mitigation name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description: Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Monitor for command line invocations of tools capable of modifying services that doesn't correspond to normal usage patterns and known software, patch cycles, etc. Also monitor for changes to executables and other files associated with services. Changes to Windows services may also be reflected in the Registry.