Title: Impair Defenses

Description: Adversaries may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms. This not only involves impairing preventative defenses, such as firewalls and anti-virus, but also detection capabilities that defenders can use to audit activity and identify malicious behavior. This may also span both native defenses as well as supplemental capabilities installed by users and administrators.

Adversaries may also impair routine operations that contribute to defensive hygiene, such as blocking users from logging out of a computer or stopping it from being shut down. These restrictions can further enable malicious operations as well as the continued propagation of incidents.(Citation: Emotet shutdown)

Adversaries could also target event aggregation and analysis mechanisms, or otherwise disrupt these procedures by altering other system components.

Metadata:

ID: T1562

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1562 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Containers, IaaS, Linux, Network, Office 365, Windows, macOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0059 | Name: Magic Hound | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Magic Hound](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0059) has disabled LSA protection on compromised hosts using '"reg" add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\LSA /v RunAsPPL /t REG_DWORD /d 0 /f'.(Citation: DFIR Report APT35 ProxyShell March 2022) |

ID: S0603 | Name: Stuxnet | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Stuxnet](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0603) reduces the integrity level of objects to allow write actions.(Citation: Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien February 2011) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. |

Mitigation ID: M1038 | Mitigation name: Execution Prevention | Description: Block execution of code on a system through application control, and/or script blocking. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description:

Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1024 | Mitigation name: Restrict Registry Permissions | Description: Restrict the ability to modify certain hives or keys in the Windows Registry. |

Mitigation ID: M1054 | Mitigation name: Software Configuration | Description: Implement

configuration changes to software (other than the operating system) to mitigate security risks associated to how the software operates. |

Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Monitor processes and command-line arguments to see if security tools or logging services are killed or stop running. Monitor Registry edits for modifications to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools. Lack of log events may be suspicious.

Monitor environment variables and APIs that can be leveraged to disable security measures.