Title: Compromise Application Executable

Description: Adversaries may modify applications installed on a device to establish persistent access to a victim. These malicious modifications can be used to make legitimate applications carry out adversary tasks when these applications are in use.

There are multiple ways an adversary can inject malicious code into applications. One method is by taking advantages of device vulnerabilities, the most well-known being Janus, an Android vulnerability that allows adversaries to add extra bytes to APK (application) and DEX (executable) files without affecting the file's signature. By being able to add arbitrary bytes to valid applications, attackers can seamlessly inject code into genuine executables without the user's knowledge.(Citation: Guardsquare Janus)

Adversaries may also rebuild applications to include malicious modifications. This can be achieved by decompiling the genuine application, merging it with the malicious code, and recompiling it.(Citation: CheckPoint Agent Smith)

Adversaries may also take action to conceal modifications to application executables and bypass user consent. These actions include altering modifications to appear as an update or exploiting vulnerabilities that allow activities of the malicious application to run inside a system application.(Citation: CheckPoint Agent Smith)

Metadata:

ID: T1577

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1577 can be used to accomplish): Persistence URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1577

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0440 | Name: Agent Smith | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Agent Smith](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0440) can inject fraudulent ad modules into existing applications on a device.(Citation: CheckPoint Agent Smith) |

ID: S1079 | Name: BOULDSPY | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [BOULDSPY](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1079) can inject malicious packages into applications already existing on an infected device.(Citation: lookout_bouldspy_0423) |

ID: S0311 | Name: YiSpecter | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [YiSpecter](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0311) has replaced device apps with ones it has downloaded.(Citation: paloalto_yispecter_1015) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. |

Detection:

This behavior is seamless to the user and is typically undetectable.