Title: Hijack Execution Flow

Description: Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the way operating systems run programs. Hijacking execution flow can be for the purposes of persistence, since this hijacked execution may reoccur over time. Adversaries may also use these mechanisms to elevate privileges or evade defenses, such as application control or other restrictions on execution. There are many ways an adversary may hijack the flow of execution, including by manipulating how the operating system locates programs to be executed. How the operating system locates libraries to be used by a program can also be intercepted. Locations where the operating system looks for programs/resources, such as file directories and in the case of Windows the Registry, could also be poisoned to include malicious payloads.

Metadata:

ID: T1574

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1574 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion, Persistence, Privilege Escalation

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Linux, Windows, macOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: C0017 | Name: C0017 | Source Type: campaign | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: During [C0017](https://attack.mitre.org/campaigns/C0017),

[APT41](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0096) established persistence by loading malicious libraries via modifications to the Import Address Table (IAT) within legitimate Microsoft binaries.(Citation: Mandiant APT41) |

ID: S0354 | Name: Denis | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Denis](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0354) replaces the nonexistent Windows DLL "msfte.dll" with its own malicious version, which is loaded by the SearchIndexer.exe and SearchProtocolHost.exe.(Citation: Cybereason Cobalt Kitty 2017) |

ID: S0567 | Name: Dtrack | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: One of [Dtrack](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0567) can replace the normal flow of a program execution with malicious code.(Citation: CyberBit Dtrack) |

ID: S0444 | Name: ShimRat | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [ShimRat](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0444) can hijack the cryptbase.dll within migwiz.exe to escalate privileges and bypass UAC controls.(Citation: FOX-IT May 2016 Mofang) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1013 | Mitigation name: Application Developer Guidance | Description: This mitigation describes any guidance or training given to developers of applications to avoid introducing security weaknesses that an adversary may be able to take advantage of. |

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1040 | Mitigation name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1038 | Mitigation name: Execution Prevention | Description: Block execution of code on a system through application control, and/or script blocking. |

Mitigation ID: M1022 | Mitigation name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Description: Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts. |

Mitigation ID: M1044 | Mitigation name: Restrict Library Loading | Description: Prevent abuse of library loading mechanisms in the operating system and software to load untrusted code by configuring appropriate library loading mechanisms and investigating potential vulnerable software. | Mitigation ID: M1024 | Mitigation name: Restrict Registry Permissions | Description: Restrict the ability to modify certain hives or keys in the Windows Registry. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. |

Mitigation ID: M1052 | Mitigation name: User Account Control | Description: Configure Windows User Account Control to mitigate risk of adversaries obtaining elevated process access. | Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Monitor file systems for moving, renaming, replacing, or modifying DLLs. Changes in the set of DLLs that are loaded by a process (compared with past behavior) that do not correlate with known software, patches, etc., are suspicious. Monitor DLLs loaded into a process and detect DLLs that have the same file name but abnormal paths. Modifications to or creation of .manifest and .local redirection files that do not correlate with software updates are suspicious.

Look for changes to binaries and service executables that may normally occur during software updates. If an executable is written, renamed, and/or moved to match an existing service executable, it could be detected and correlated with other suspicious behavior. Hashing of binaries and service executables could be used to detect replacement against historical data. Monitor for changes to environment variables, as well as the commands to implement these changes.

Monitor processes for unusual activity (e.g., a process that does not use the network begins to do so, abnormal process call trees). Track library metadata, such as a hash, and compare libraries that are loaded at process execution time against previous executions to detect differences that do not correlate with patching or updates.

Service changes are reflected in the Registry. Modification to existing services should not occur frequently. If a service binary path or failure parameters are changed to values that are not typical for that service and does not correlate with software updates, then it may be due to malicious activity. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current service information. (Citation: Autoruns for Windows) Suspicious program execution through services may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data.