Title: Establish Accounts

Description: Adversaries may create and cultivate accounts with services that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can create accounts that can be used to build a persona to further operations. Persona development consists of the development of public information, presence, history and appropriate affiliations. This development could be applied to social media, website, or other publicly available information that could be referenced and scrutinized for legitimacy over the course of an operation using that persona or identity.(Citation: NEWSCASTER2014)(Citation: BlackHatRobinSage)

For operations incorporating social engineering, the utilization of an online persona may be important. These personas may be fictitious or impersonate real people. The persona may exist on a single site or across multiple sites (ex: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Google, GitHub, Docker Hub, etc.). Establishing a persona may require development of additional documentation to make them seem real. This could include filling out profile information, developing social networks, or incorporating photos.(Citation: NEWSCASTER2014)(Citation: BlackHatRobinSage) Establishing accounts can also include the creation of accounts with email providers, which may be directly leveraged for [Phishing for Information](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1598) or [Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566).(Citation: Mandiant APT1)

Metadata:

ID: T1585

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1585 can be used to accomplish): Resource Development

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1585

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): PRE

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0025 | Name: APT17 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [APT17](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0025) has created and cultivated profile pages in Microsoft TechNet. To make profile pages appear more legitimate,

[APT17](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0025) has created biographical sections and posted in forum threads.(Citation: FireEye APT17) |

ID: G0117 | Name: Fox Kitten | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Fox Kitten](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0117) has created KeyBase accounts to communicate with ransomware victims.(Citation: ClearSky Pay2Kitten December 2020)(Citation: Check Point Pay2Key November 2020) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1056 | Mitigation name: Pre-compromise | Description: This category is used for any applicable mitigation activities that apply to techniques occurring before an adversary gains Initial Access, such as Reconnaissance and Resource Development techniques. |

Detection:

Consider monitoring social media activity related to your organization. Suspicious activity may include personas claiming to work for your organization or recently created/modified accounts making numerous connection requests to accounts affiliated with your organization.

Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access (ex: [Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566)).