Title: Develop Capabilities

Description: Adversaries may build capabilities that can be used during targeting. Rather than purchasing, freely downloading, or stealing capabilities, adversaries may develop their own capabilities in-house. This is the process of identifying development requirements and building solutions such as malware, exploits, and self-signed certificates. Adversaries may develop capabilities to support their operations throughout numerous phases of the adversary lifecycle.(Citation: Mandiant APT1)(Citation: Kaspersky Sofacy)(Citation: Bitdefender StrongPity June 2020)(Citation: Talos Promethium June 2020)

As with legitimate development efforts, different skill sets may be required for developing capabilities. The skills needed may be located in-house, or may need to be contracted out. Use of a contractor may be considered an extension of that adversary's development capabilities, provided the adversary plays a role in shaping requirements and maintains a degree of exclusivity to the capability.

Metadata:

ID: T1587

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1587 can be used to accomplish): Resource Development

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1587

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): PRE

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0094 | Name: Kimsuky | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Kimsuky](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0094) created and used a mailing toolkit to use in spearphishing attacks.(Citation: VirusBulletin Kimsuky October 2019) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1056 | Mitigation name: Pre-compromise | Description: This category is used for any applicable mitigation activities that apply to techniques occurring before an adversary gains Initial Access, such as Reconnaissance and Resource Development techniques. |

Detection:

Consider analyzing malware for features that may be associated with the adversary and/or their developers, such as compiler used, debugging artifacts, or code similarities. Malware repositories can also be used to identify additional samples associated with the adversary and identify development patterns over time.

Consider use of services that may aid in the tracking of certificates in use on sites across the Internet. In some cases it may be possible to pivot on known pieces of certificate information to uncover other adversary infrastructure.(Citation: Splunk Kovar Certificates 2017) Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Defense Evasion or Command and Control.