Title: Phishing for Information

Description: Adversaries may send phishing messages to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Phishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Phishing for information is different from [Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) in that the objective is gathering data from the victim rather than executing malicious code.

All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. Phishing can be targeted, known as spearphishing. In spearphishing, a specific individual, company, or industry will be targeted by the adversary. More generally, adversaries can conduct non-targeted phishing, such as in mass credential harvesting campaigns.

Adversaries may also try to obtain information directly through the exchange of emails, instant messages, or other electronic conversation means.(Citation: ThreatPost Social Media Phishing)(Citation: TrendMictro Phishing)(Citation: PCMag FakeLogin)(Citation: Sophos Attachment)(Citation: GitHub Phishery) Victims may also receive phishing messages that direct them to call a phone number where the adversary attempts to collect confidential information.(Citation: Avertium callback phishing)

Phishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: [Establish

Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1585) or [Compromise

Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1586)) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages. Another way to accomplish this is by forging or spoofing(Citation: Proofpoint-spoof) the identity of the sender which can be used to fool both the human recipient as well as automated security tools.(Citation: cyberproof-double-bounce)

Phishing for information may also involve evasive techniques, such as removing or manipulating emails or metadata/headers from compromised accounts being abused to send messages (e.g., [Email Hiding Rules](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/008)).(Citation: Microsoft OAuth Spam 2022)(Citation: Palo Alto Unit 42 VBA Infostealer 2014)

Metadata:

ID: T1598

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1598 can be used to accomplish): Reconnaissance URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1598

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): PRE

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0007 | Name: APT28 | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [APT28](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0007) has used spearphishing to compromise

credentials.(Citation: Microsoft Targeting Elections September 2020)(Citation: Secureworks IRON TWILIGHT Active Measures March 2017) |

ID: G1015 | Name: Scattered Spider | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Scattered Spider](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G1015) has used a combination of credential phishing and social engineering to capture one-time-password (OTP) codes.(Citation: CrowdStrike Scattered Spider BYOVD January 2023) |

ID: G0128 | Name: ZIRCONIUM | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [ZIRCONIUM](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0128) targeted presidential campaign staffers with credential phishing e-mails.(Citation: Google Election Threats October 2020) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1054 | Mitigation name: Software Configuration | Description: Implement configuration changes to software (other than the operating system) to mitigate security risks associated to how the software operates. |

Mitigation ID: M1017 | Mitigation name: User Training | Description: Train users to be aware of access or manipulation attempts by an adversary to reduce the risk of successful spearphishing, social engineering, and other techniques that involve user interaction. |

## Detection:

Depending on the specific method of phishing, the detections can vary. Monitor for suspicious email activity, such as numerous accounts receiving messages from a single unusual/unknown sender.

Filtering based on DKIM+SPF or header analysis can help detect when the email sender is spoofed.(Citation: Microsoft Anti Spoofing)(Citation: ACSC Email Spoofing)

When it comes to following links, monitor for references to uncategorized or known-bad sites. URL inspection within email (including expanding shortened links) can also help detect links leading to known malicious sites.

Monitor social media traffic for suspicious activity, including messages requesting information as well as abnormal file or data transfers (especially those involving unknown, or otherwise suspicious accounts).