Title: Weaken Encryption

Description: Adversaries may compromise a network device's encryption capability in order to bypass encryption that would otherwise protect data communications. (Citation: Cisco Synful Knock Evolution)

Encryption can be used to protect transmitted network traffic to maintain its confidentiality (protect against unauthorized disclosure) and integrity (protect against unauthorized changes). Encryption ciphers are used to convert a plaintext message to ciphertext and can be computationally intensive to decipher without the associated decryption key. Typically, longer keys increase the cost of cryptanalysis, or decryption without the key.

Adversaries can compromise and manipulate devices that perform encryption of network traffic. For example, through behaviors such as [Modify System

Image](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601), [Reduce Key

Space](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1600/001), and [Disable Crypto

Hardware](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1600/002), an adversary can negatively effect and/or eliminate a device's ability to securely encrypt network traffic. This poses a greater risk of

unauthorized disclosure and may help facilitate data manipulation, Credential Access, or Collection efforts. (Citation: Cisco Blog Legacy Device Attacks)

Metadata:

ID: T1600

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1600 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1600

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Network

Permissions required (the lowest level of permission the adversary is required to be operating within to perform T1600): Administrator

Detection:

There is no documented method for defenders to directly identify behaviors that weaken encryption. Detection efforts may be focused on closely related adversary behaviors, such as [Modify System Image](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601). Some detection methods require vendor support to aid in investigation.