Title: Data from Configuration Repository

Description: Adversaries may collect data related to managed devices from configuration repositories. Configuration repositories are used by management systems in order to configure, manage, and control data on remote systems. Configuration repositories may also facilitate remote access and administration of devices.

Adversaries may target these repositories in order to collect large quantities of sensitive system administration data. Data from configuration repositories may be exposed by various protocols and software and can store a wide variety of data, much of which may align with adversary Discovery objectives.(Citation: US-CERT-TA18-106A)(Citation: US-CERT TA17-156A SNMP Abuse 2017) Metadata:

## ID: T1602

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1602 can be used to accomplish): Collection URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1602

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Network Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1041 | Mitigation name: Encrypt Sensitive Information | Description: Protect sensitive information with strong encryption. |

Mitigation ID: M1037 | Mitigation name: Filter Network Traffic | Description: Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic. |

Mitigation ID: M1031 | Mitigation name: Network Intrusion Prevention | Description: Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries. |

Mitigation ID: M1030 | Mitigation name: Network Segmentation | Description: Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network. Configure separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances to isolate critical cloud systems. |

Mitigation ID: M1054 | Mitigation name: Software Configuration | Description: Implement configuration changes to software (other than the operating system) to mitigate security risks associated to how the software operates. |

Mitigation ID: M1051 | Mitigation name: Update Software | Description: Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. |

Detection:

Identify network traffic sent or received by untrusted hosts or networks that solicits and obtains the configuration information of the queried device.(Citation: Cisco Advisory SNMP v3 Authentication Vulnerabilities)