Title: Build Image on Host

Description: Adversaries may build a container image directly on a host to bypass defenses that monitor for the retrieval of malicious images from a public registry. A remote <code>build</code> request may be sent to the Docker API that includes a Dockerfile that pulls a vanilla base image, such as alpine, from a public or local registry and then builds a custom image upon it.(Citation: Docker Build Image)

An adversary may take advantage of that <code>build</code> API to build a custom image on the host that includes malware downloaded from their C2 server, and then they may utilize [Deploy Container](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1610) using that custom image.(Citation: Aqua Build Images on Hosts)(Citation: Aqua Security Cloud Native Threat Report June 2021) If the base image is pulled from a public registry, defenses will likely not detect the image as malicious since it's a vanilla image. If the base image already resides in a local registry, the pull may be considered even less suspicious since the image is already in the environment.

Metadata:

ID: T1612

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1612 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1612

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Containers Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1035 | Mitigation name: Limit Access to Resource Over Network | Description: Prevent access to file shares, remote access to systems, unnecessary services. Mechanisms to limit access may include use of network concentrators, RDP gateways, etc. |

Mitigation ID: M1030 | Mitigation name: Network Segmentation | Description: Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical

segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network. Configure separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances to isolate critical cloud systems. |

Mitigation ID: M1026 | Mitigation name: Privileged Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root. |

## Detection:

Monitor for unexpected Docker image build requests to the Docker daemon on hosts in the environment. Additionally monitor for subsequent network communication with anomalous IPs that have never been seen before in the environment that indicate the download of malicious code.