Title: Deploy Container

Description: Adversaries may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade defenses. In some cases, adversaries may deploy a new container to execute processes associated with a particular image or deployment, such as processes that execute or download malware. In others, an adversary may deploy a new container configured without network rules, user limitations, etc. to bypass existing defenses within the environment.

Containers can be deployed by various means, such as via Docker's <code>create</code> and <code>start</code> APIs or via a web application such as the Kubernetes dashboard or Kubeflow.(Citation: Docker Containers API)(Citation: Kubernetes Dashboard)(Citation: Kubeflow Pipelines) Adversaries may deploy containers based on retrieved or built malicious images or from benign images that download and execute malicious payloads at runtime.(Citation: Aqua Build Images on Hosts)

Metadata:

ID: T1610

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1610 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion, Execution

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1610

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Containers Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: G0139 | Name: TeamTNT | Source Type: group | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [TeamTNT](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0139) has deployed different types of containers into victim environments to facilitate execution.(Citation: Intezer TeamTNT September 2020)(Citation: Trend Micro TeamTNT) [TeamTNT](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0139) has also transferred cryptocurrency mining software to Kubernetes clusters discovered within local IP address ranges.(Citation: Cisco Talos Intelligence Group) |

ID: S0600 | Name: Doki | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description:

[Doki](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0600) was run through a deployed container.(Citation: Intezer Doki July 20) |

ID: S0599 | Name: Kinsing | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Kinsing](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0599) was run through a deployed Ubuntu container.(Citation: Aqua Kinsing April 2020) |

ID: S0683 | Name: Peirates | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Peirates](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0683) can deploy a pod that mounts its node's root file system, then execute a command to create a reverse shell on the node.(Citation: Peirates GitHub) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1047 | Mitigation name: Audit | Description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. | Mitigation ID: M1035 | Mitigation name: Limit Access to Resource Over Network | Description: Prevent access to file shares, remote access to systems, unnecessary services. Mechanisms to limit access may include use of network concentrators, RDP gateways, etc. |

Mitigation ID: M1030 | Mitigation name: Network Segmentation | Description: Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network. Configure separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances to isolate critical cloud systems. |

Mitigation ID: M1018 | Mitigation name: User Account Management | Description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts. | Detection:

Monitor for suspicious or unknown container images and pods in your environment. Deploy logging agents on Kubernetes nodes and retrieve logs from sidecar proxies for application pods to detect malicious activity at the cluster level. In Docker, the daemon log provides insight into remote API

calls, including those that deploy containers. Logs for management services or applications used to deploy containers other than the native technologies themselves should also be monitored.