Title: Command and Scripting Interpreter

Description: Adversaries may abuse command and script interpreters to execute commands, scripts, or binaries. These interfaces and languages provide ways of interacting with computer systems and are a common feature across many different platforms. Most systems come with some built-in command-line interface and scripting capabilities, for example, Android is a UNIX-like OS and includes a basic [Unix Shell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1623/001) that can be accessed via the Android Debug Bridge (ADB) or Java's 'Runtime' package.

Adversaries may abuse these technologies in various ways as a means of executing arbitrary commands. Commands and scripts can be embedded in [Initial

Access](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0027) payloads delivered to victims as lure documents or as secondary payloads downloaded from an existing C2. Adversaries may also execute commands through interactive terminals/shells.

Metadata:

ID: T1623

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1623 can be used to accomplish): Execution

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1623

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S1056 | Name: TianySpy | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description:

[TianySpy](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1056) can steal information via malicious JavaScript.(Citation: trendmicro_tianyspy_0122) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1002 | Mitigation name: Attestation | Description: Enable remote attestation capabilities when available (such as Android SafetyNet or Samsung Knox TIMA Attestation) and prohibit devices that fail the attestation from accessing enterprise resources. |

Mitigation ID: M1010 | Mitigation name: Deploy Compromised Device Detection Method | Description: A variety of methods exist that can be used to enable enterprises to identify compromised (e.g. rooted/jailbroken) devices, whether using security mechanisms built directly into the device, third-party mobile security applications, enterprise mobility management (EMM)/mobile device management (MDM) capabilities, or other methods. Some methods may be trivial to evade while others may be more sophisticated. | Detection:

Command-line activities can potentially be detected through Mobile Threat Defense integrations with lower-level OS APIs. This could grant the MTD agents access to running processes and their parameters, potentially detecting unwanted or malicious shells.

Application vetting services could detect the invocations of methods that could be used to execute shell commands.(Citation: Samsung Knox Mobile Threat Defense)