Description: Adversaries may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms. This not only involves impairing preventative defenses, such as anti-virus, but also detection capabilities that defenders can use to audit activity and identify malicious behavior. This may span both native defenses as well as supplemental capabilities installed by users or mobile endpoint administrators.

Metadata:

ID: T1629

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1629 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1629

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1010 | Mitigation name: Deploy Compromised Device Detection Method | Description: A variety of methods exist that can be used to enable enterprises to identify compromised (e.g. rooted/jailbroken) devices, whether using security mechanisms built directly into the device, third-party mobile security applications, enterprise mobility management (EMM)/mobile device management (MDM) capabilities, or other methods. Some methods may be trivial to evade while others may be more sophisticated. |

Mitigation ID: M1012 | Mitigation name: Enterprise Policy | Description: An enterprise mobility management (EMM), also known as mobile device management (MDM), system can be used to provision policies to mobile devices to control aspects of their allowed behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Mitigation ID: M1004 | Mitigation name: System Partition Integrity | Description: Ensure that Android devices being used include and enable the Verified Boot capability, which cryptographically ensures the integrity of the system partition. |

Mitigation ID: M1011 | Mitigation name: User Guidance | Description: Describes any guidance or training given to users to set particular configuration settings or avoid specific potentially risky behaviors. |

Detection:

Mobile security products integrated with Samsung Knox for Mobile Threat Defense can monitor processes to see if security tools are killed or stop running. Application vetting can detect many techniques associated with impairing device defenses.(Citation: Samsung Knox Mobile Threat Defense)