Description: Adversaries may utilize standard operating system APIs to collect data from permission-backed data stores on a device, such as the calendar or contact list. These permissions need to be declared ahead of time. On Android, they must be included in the application's manifest. On iOS, they must be included in the application's 'Info.plist' file.

In almost all cases, the user is required to grant access to the data store that the application is trying to access. In recent OS versions, vendors have introduced additional privacy controls for users, such as the ability to grant permission to an application only while the application is being actively used by the user.

If the device has been jailbroken or rooted, an adversary may be able to access [Protected User Data](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1636) without the user's knowledge or approval. Metadata:

ID: T1636

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1636 can be used to accomplish): Collection URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1636

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1011 | Mitigation name: User Guidance | Description: Describes any guidance or training given to users to set particular configuration settings or avoid specific potentially risky behaviors. |

## Detection:

Users can view permissions granted to an application in device settings. Application vetting services typically flag permissions requested by an application, which can be reviewed by an administrator. Certain dangerous permissions, such as 'RECEIVE_SMS', could receive additional scrutiny.