Title: Adversary-in-the-Middle

Description: Adversaries may attempt to position themselves between two or more networked devices to support follow-on behaviors such as [Transmitted Data

Manipulation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/002) or [Endpoint Denial of Service](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1642).

[Adversary-in-the-Middle](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1638) can be achieved through several mechanisms, such as a malicious application registering itself as a VPN client. By doing this, the adversary can effectively redirect device traffic to wherever they want. However, registering as a VPN client requires user consent on both Android and iOS. Additionally, on iOS, the application requires a special entitlement that must be granted by Apple. Alternatively, if an application is able to escalate privileges, it can potentially utilize those privileges to gain access to network traffic. Outside of a mobile device, adversaries may be able to capture traffic by employing a rogue base station or Wi-Fi access point. These devices will allow adversaries to capture network traffic after it has left the device, while it is flowing to its destination. On a local network, enterprise techniques could be used, such as DNS redirection or DNS poisoning.

If applications properly encrypt their network traffic, sensitive data may not be accessible an adversary, depending on the point of capture.

Metadata:

ID: T1638

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1638 can be used to accomplish): Collection URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1638

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0288 | Name: KeyRaider | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: Most [KeyRaider](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0288) samples hook SSLRead and SSLWrite functions in the itunesstored process to intercept device communication with the Apple App Store.(Citation: Skycure-Profiles) |

ID: S0407 | Name: Monokle | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Monokle](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0407) can install attacker-specified certificates to the device's trusted certificate store, enabling an adversary to perform adversary-in-the-middle attacks.(Citation: Xiao-KeyRaider) |

ID: S1062 | Name: S.O.V.A. | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [S.O.V.A.](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1062) has included adversary-in-the-middle capabilities.(Citation: threatfabric_sova_0921) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1009 | Mitigation name: Encrypt Network Traffic | Description: Application developers should encrypt all of their application network traffic using the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol to ensure protection of sensitive data and deter network-based attacks. If desired, application developers could perform message-based encryption of data before passing it for TLS encryption.

iOS's App Transport Security feature can be used to help ensure that all application network traffic is appropriately protected. Apple intends to mandate use of App Transport Security (Citation: TechCrunch-ATS) for all apps in the Apple App Store unless appropriate justification is given. Android's Network Security Configuration feature similarly can be used by app developers to help ensure that all of their application network traffic is appropriately protected (Citation: Android-NetworkSecurityConfig).

Use of Virtual Private Network (VPN) tunnels, e.g. using the IPsec protocol, can help mitigate some types of network attacks as well. |

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or

weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. | Detection:

Application vetting services should look for applications that request VPN access. These applications should be heavily scrutinized since VPN functionality is not very common. Mobile security products can potentially detect rogue Wi-Fi access points if the adversary is attempting to decrypt traffic using an untrusted SSL certificate.

On both Android and iOS, users must grant consent to an application to act as a VPN. Both platforms also provide visual context to the user in the top status bar when a VPN connection is active. Users can see registered VPN services in the device settings.