Title: Indicator Removal on Host

Description: Adversaries may delete, alter, or hide generated artifacts on a device, including files, jailbreak status, or the malicious application itself. These actions may interfere with event collection, reporting, or other notifications used to detect intrusion activity. This may compromise the integrity of mobile security solutions by causing notable events or information to go unreported.

Metadata:

ID: T1630

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1630 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1630

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S1083 | Name: Chameleon | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Chameleon](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1083) can remove artifacts of its presence and uninstall itself.(Citation: cyble_chameleon_0423) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1002 | Mitigation name: Attestation | Description: Enable remote attestation capabilities when available (such as Android SafetyNet or Samsung Knox TIMA Attestation) and prohibit devices that fail the attestation from accessing enterprise resources. |

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Mitigation ID: M1011 | Mitigation name: User Guidance | Description: Describes any guidance or training given to users to set particular configuration settings or avoid specific potentially risky behaviors. |

Detection:

Mobile security products can detect which applications can request device administrator permissions. Users can view applications with administrator access through the device settings, and may also notice if user data is inexplicably missing. Users can see a list of applications that can use accessibility services in the device settings. Application vetting services could look for use of APIs that could indicate the application is trying to hide activity.