Title: Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion

Description: Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors after checking for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware's behavior to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the payload. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping further payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from [Virtualization/Sandbox

Evasion](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1633) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.

Adversaries may use several methods to accomplish [Virtualization/Sandbox

Evasion](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1633) such as checking for system artifacts associated with analysis or virtualization. Adversaries may also check for legitimate user activity to help determine if it is in an analysis environment.

Metadata:

ID: T1633

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1633 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1633

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S1061 | Name: AbstractEmu | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [AbstractEmu](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1061) has used code abstraction and anti-emulation checks to potentially avoid running while under analysis.(Citation: lookout_abstractemu_1021) |

Detection:

Application vetting services could look for applications attempting to get

'android.os.SystemProperties' or 'getprop' with the runtime 'exec()' commands. This could indicate some level of sandbox evasion, as Google recommends against using system properties within applications.