Title: Subvert Trust Controls

Description: Adversaries may undermine security controls that will either warn users of untrusted activity or prevent execution of untrusted applications. Operating systems and security products may contain mechanisms to identify programs or websites as possessing some level of trust. Examples of such features include: an app being allowed to run because it is signed by a valid code signing certificate; an OS prompt alerting the user that an app came from an untrusted source; or getting an indication that you are about to connect to an untrusted site. The method adversaries use will depend on the specific mechanism they seek to subvert.

Metadata:

## ID: T1632

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1632 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1632

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1012 | Mitigation name: Enterprise Policy | Description: An enterprise mobility management (EMM), also known as mobile device management (MDM), system can be used to provision policies to mobile devices to control aspects of their allowed behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. |

Mitigation ID: M1011 | Mitigation name: User Guidance | Description: Describes any guidance or training given to users to set particular configuration settings or avoid specific potentially risky behaviors. |

## Detection:

On Android, the user can use the device settings menu to view trusted CA certificates and look for unexpected or unknown certificates. A mobile security product could similarly examine the trusted CA certificate store for anomalies. Users can use the device settings menu to view which applications on the device are allowed to install unknown applications.

On iOS, the user can use the device settings menu to view installed Configuration Profiles and look for unexpected or unknown profiles. A Mobile Device Management (MDM) system could use the iOS MDM APIs to examine the list of installed Configuration Profiles for anomalies.