Title: Compromise Client Software Binary

Description: Adversaries may modify system software binaries to establish persistent access to devices. System software binaries are used by the underlying operating system and users over adb or terminal emulators.

Adversaries may make modifications to client software binaries to carry out malicious tasks when those binaries are executed. For example, malware may come with a pre-compiled malicious binary intended to overwrite the genuine one on the device. Since these binaries may be routinely executed by the system or user, the adversary can leverage this for persistent access to the device. Metadata:

## ID: T1645

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1645 can be used to accomplish): Persistence URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1645

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0293 | Name: BrainTest | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [BrainTest](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0293) uses root privileges (if available) to copy an additional Android app package (APK) to /system/priv-app to maintain persistence even after a factory reset.(Citation: Lookout-BrainTest) |

ID: S0655 | Name: BusyGasper | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [BusyGasper](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0655) can abuse existing root access to copy components into the system partition.(Citation: SecureList BusyGasper) |

ID: S0550 | Name: DoubleAgent | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [DoubleAgent](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0550) has used exploits to root devices and install additional malware on the system partition.(Citation: Lookout Uyghur Campaign) |

ID: S0407 | Name: Monokle | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Monokle](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0407) can remount the system partition as read/write to install attacker-specified certificates.(Citation: Lookout-Monokle) |

ID: S0316 | Name: Pegasus for Android | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Pegasus for Android](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0316) attempts to modify the device's system partition.(Citation: Lookout-PegasusAndroid) |

ID: S0289 | Name: Pegasus for iOS | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Pegasus for iOS](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0289) modifies the system partition to maintain persistence.(Citation: Lookout-Pegasus) |

ID: S0294 | Name: ShiftyBug | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [ShiftyBug](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0294) is auto-rooting adware that embeds itself as a system application, making it nearly impossible to remove.(Citation: Lookout-Adware) |

ID: S0324 | Name: SpyDealer | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [SpyDealer](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0324) maintains persistence by installing an Android application package (APK) on the system partition.(Citation: PaloAlto-SpyDealer) | Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1002 | Mitigation name: Attestation | Description: Enable remote attestation capabilities when available (such as Android SafetyNet or Samsung Knox TIMA Attestation) and prohibit devices that fail the attestation from accessing enterprise resources. |

Mitigation ID: M1003 | Mitigation name: Lock Bootloader | Description: On devices that provide the capability to unlock the bootloader (hence allowing any operating system code to be flashed onto the device), perform periodic checks to ensure that the bootloader is locked. |

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Mitigation ID: M1004 | Mitigation name: System Partition Integrity | Description: Ensure that Android devices being used include and enable the Verified Boot capability, which cryptographically ensures the integrity of the system partition. | Detection:

Verified Boot can detect unauthorized modifications to the system partition.(Citation: Android-VerifiedBoot) Android's SafetyNet API provides remote attestation capabilities, which could potentially be used to identify and respond to compromised devices. Samsung Knox provides a similar remote attestation capability on supported Samsung devices. Application vetting services could detect applications trying to modify files in protected parts of the operating system.