Title: Exploitation for Client Execution

Description: Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in client applications to execute code. Vulnerabilities can exist in software due to insecure coding practices that can lead to unanticipated behavior. Adversaries may take advantage of certain vulnerabilities through targeted exploitation for the purpose of arbitrary code execution. Oftentimes the most valuable exploits to an offensive toolkit are those that can be used to obtain code execution on a remote system because they can be used to gain access to that system. Users will expect to see files related to the applications they commonly used to do work, so they are a useful target for exploit research and development because of their high utility.

Adversaries may use device-based zero-click exploits for code execution. These exploits are powerful because there is no user interaction required for code execution.

### SMS/iMessage Delivery

SMS and iMessage in iOS are common targets through [Drive-By

Compromise](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1456),

[Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1660), etc. Adversaries may use embed malicious links, files, etc. in SMS messages or iMessages. Mobile devices may be compromised through one-click exploits, where the victim must interact with a text message, or zero-click exploits, where no user interaction is required.

### AirDrop

Unique to iOS, AirDrop is a network protocol that allows iOS users to transfer files between iOS devices. Before patches from Apple were released, on iOS 13.4 and earlier, adversaries may force the Apple Wireless Direct Link (AWDL) interface to activate, then exploit a buffer overflow to gain access to the device and run as root without interaction from the user.

Metadata:

ID: T1658

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1658 can be used to accomplish): Execution URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1658

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S0289 | Name: Pegasus for iOS | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [Pegasus for iOS](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0289) can compromise iPhones running iOS 16.6 without any user interaction. |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1001 | Mitigation name: Security Updates | Description: Install security updates in response to discovered vulnerabilities.

Purchase devices with a vendor and/or mobile carrier commitment to provide security updates in a prompt manner for a set period of time.

Decommission devices that will no longer receive security updates.

Limit or block access to enterprise resources from devices that have not installed recent security updates.

On Android devices, access can be controlled based on each device's security patch level. On iOS devices, access can be controlled based on the iOS version. |

Mitigation ID: M1011 | Mitigation name: User Guidance | Description: Describes any guidance or training given to users to set particular configuration settings or avoid specific potentially risky behaviors. |