Title: Application Versioning

Description: An adversary may push an update to a previously benign application to add malicious code. This can be accomplished by pushing an initially benign, functional application to a trusted application store, such as the Google Play Store or the Apple App Store. This allows the adversary to establish a trusted userbase that may grant permissions to the application prior to the introduction of malicious code. Then, an application update could be pushed to introduce malicious code.(Citation: android_app_breaking_bad)

This technique could also be accomplished by compromising a developer's account. This would allow an adversary to take advantage of an existing userbase without having to establish the userbase themselves.

Metadata:

ID: T1661

Related Tactics (the tactic objectives that T1661 can be used to accomplish): Defense Evasion, Initial Access

URL: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1661

Platforms (the system the adversary is operating within): Android, iOS

Procedure Examples (usage examples):

ID: S1055 | Name: SharkBot | Source Type: software | Mapping Type: uses | Mapping description: [SharkBot](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S1055) initially poses as a benign application, then malware is downloaded and executed after an application update.(Citation:

nccgroup_sharkbot_0322) |

Mitigations:

Mitigation ID: M1012 | Mitigation name: Enterprise Policy | Description: An enterprise mobility management (EMM), also known as mobile device management (MDM), system can be used to provision policies to mobile devices to control aspects of their allowed behavior. |

Mitigation ID: M1006 | Mitigation name: Use Recent OS Version | Description: New mobile operating system versions bring not only patches against discovered vulnerabilities but also often bring security architecture improvements that provide resilience against potential vulnerabilities or weaknesses that have not yet been discovered. They may also bring improvements that block use of observed adversary techniques. |